Translator: Mahmoud Naser Checker: Anwar Dafa-Alla
I would like to ask you
What is the common factor between these three people?
You may know the first person
. I am sure you are all good followers of the American Idol program,
You can not recognize Aida Jahni
She is a finalist
In the poet of the million contest
Which broadcasts from Abu Dhabi,
And continues throughout the Arab world
In this competition
People must compose and cast
An original poetry, in the form of Nabataean poetry
And Lima Sohar were competing in the finals
In the Afghan Star of Music competition
Now, before I go any further,
Yes, I know everything started with "Britain has talent".
But my point in discussing this is
It is to show you - I hope to be able to show you
That these competitions are based on merit
With equal access to all,
With the winner selected by voting via SMS,
Changing tribal societies.
I will focus on Afghanistan
And the Arab world in the UAE
How it changed tribal societies,
Not by introducing Western ideas,
But by merging with the language in those places
All this starts with pleasure
(Video): We're late to watch the Afghan star
We will go to watch the Afghan star. we're late.
We are late.
We have to go see the Afghan star
These programs have stretched incredibly deep into society
Afghanistan People make extraordinary efforts
To be able to watch this program
You do not have to have your own TV
Where people are watching it all over the country
And in public places as well
But it goes beyond follow-up
, Because there is also a part
Campaign
Where people become related
So much so that they have volunteers, just like volunteers in politics
Who are distributed in the countryside,
In support of their candidates
The contestants also nominate themselves
Now, of course, there is a certain degree of ethnic loyalty, but not quite.
Because every year he was the winner of a different tribal group
This may open the domain,
Especially women,
Last season there were two women in the final.
One of them, Lima Charm, a Pashtun from Kandahar,
A very conservative region of the country
. Here, she tells the Afghani star in the documentary
How her friends insisted on not doing so
And told her how she left them for democracy
. But they also reveal it
Aware that members of the Taliban
They were sending SMS messages to vote for her
Aida al-Juhani also risked
And made an effort to compete
In the poet of the million contest
It should be mentioned that her husband was supportive of her from the beginning
But her tribe and her family urged her not to participate
They were strongly opposed
. But what I started to win
So they came back to support it
Competition and victory have proved to be a universal human value
And it's there
Her hair revolves around the woman
And women's lives in society.
It just made itself
And her presence in a competition with men
This indicates a vote on the program
Hits a very important example for young women -
These young women in the audience of the program -
In Abu Dhabi, but also people in attracting audience audiences.
Now you think that "American Idol"
Would offer a measure of America
But in fact, the exact opposite happens.
Using this format for popular participation
For traditionalism, local culture,
In fact, in the Gulf, is accelerating recovery
Of interest in Nabataean poetry,
Also in traditional dress, dance and music.
And for Afghanistan
Where the Taliban banned music for many years,
Is to re-present their melodies and traditional music.
They do not sing pop songs,
They sing Afghan music.
They learned how to lose respectfully,
Without the revenge of the winner.
(Laughter)
This is not a little thing.
The final is a body of formulation
The American Idol Program
Which has just emerged in Afghanistan,
Is a new program called "Candidate".
And in this program offers people
Policy approaches that are then voted on.
Many of them are too young to run in a presidential election.
But by presenting the issues there,
They influence the presidential race.
For me, the essence of things is invisible,
Be how reality TV really leads.
thank you.
(clap)